THIS FILE WILL HELP YOU UNDERSTAND HOW TO CONFIGURE THE SETTINGS IN THIS MOD TO YOUR LIKING. PLEASE READ BEFORE YOU MAKE CHANGES SO YOU DO NOT BREAK THINGS ACCIDENTALLY.


The config consists of three main "groups":

○ General Config - Contains various settings that doesn't necesarilly have direct ties to the ammunition itself.

○ Simple Ammunition Config - Is a simplified and more convenient way of changing a stat for all bullets or changing all stats for all bullets with a simple change of a multiplier. It can also turn on and off or set certain options for all bullets.

○ Advanced Ammunition Config - Gives you more granular control, and let's you change all important stats for each bullet individually. The values here is what the multipliers from the Simple Ammunition Config is altering.



In the config you will encounter five types of options:

○ Multipliers - Are found only in the Simple Ammunition Config. They change settings by multiplying itself with the value that is set in the corresponding Advanced Ammunition Config setting. Multipliers are convenient because they allow for easy changing of settings, and they maintain certain balances between ammunitions. If you set the multiplier for damage to 2, which means every bullet deals twice the damage of default, the bullet that used to deal the most damage still does, the relationship between the bullets do not change. Default values for all multipliers is 1. When using decimals, you must separate the numbers with a period and not a comma, it accepts ONLY values that contain a readable number in a slot before a period. This goes for ALL config settings that contain a number.

○ Booleans - Are settings that only accept "true", "false" or "". It is important that you keep the quotations around the boolean, or it might not work. Booleans in my mod is coded such that often leaving it empty will result in the default setting for the mod automatically being applied. This is to prevent crashes and issues, but you may get error messages in the server console if it does not like being empty, and it will tell you what and where the issue is. Both Simple Ammunition Config and Advanced Ammunition Config contains Booleans, often for the same setting. It is recommended to always have the boolean setting active and set to your preferred overall option in Simple Ammunition Config. That is because any boolean you put in Advanced Ammunition Config will override the setting in Simple Ammunition Config for that bullet. So if you for example want most bullets to not be available on the flea market, you would disable flea market in the Simple Ammunition Config, but in the Advanced Ammunition config you would enable flea market for the specific bullets that you want to access on the flea regardless of the general Simple Ammunition Config setting. Advanced Ammunition Config ovverides Simple Ammunition Config and Simple Ammunition Config overrides empty settings from Advanced Ammunition Config. 

○ Values - Are mostly found in the Advanced Ammunition Config. Whenever there is a setting with a value that does not contain the word "multiplier" in the name, it is a value based setting. Whatever number you put here simply changes the value for an option, what the value means depends on which option you are changing.

○ Multiple Choice - Are settings where you need to specify a desired setting with text instead of a value. Further down in this document, I explain each setting in more detail, all possible settings for these will be listed there. Just like with booleans, it is important to keep the desired setting inside of quotations.

○ Placeholders - Are marked very clearly. Changing their settings may either break something or simply have no effect. They are there in anticipation for future updates or simply for testing purposes. They are not meant for users to mess with, and there is no reason for you to change them.



Settings and what they do:

General Config:

○ "Trader Refresh In Seconds" - Sets how long, in seconds, it takes between each stock reset of the custom trader WEB AMMO. Default is 10800, 3 hours.

○ "Flea Market Fee Multiplier" - Changes how much you pay to put ILLEGAL ammunition up for sale on the Flea Market.

○ "XXXXX Shrapnel Damage" - Sets how much damage each fragment deals depending on the "Fragment Type" chosen for the bullets that support that setting.


Simple Ammunition Config:

○ Multipliers will not be individually explained as they literally just multiply the value of the corresponding setting in Advanced Ammunition Config. They are named in such a way that it should be obvious what setting correspond to which. Higher value means better stats, higher chance, etc.

○ Neither will the Booleans or Multiple Choice's as the only difference between Advanced Ammunition Configs entries and the corresponding entries in SImple Ammunition Config, is that the Advanced Ammunition Config settings always will override the ones from Simple Ammunition Config.

○ "Spawn Chance Decimal" - Sets the percentage chance for ILLEGAL ammunition to spawn in the base value containers. Base value containers are the containers that is not divided by anything to have a lower spawn chance, this info, what containers are have the "base" values and which are divided and by how much, is found in the text on the mod's page. This uses the new advanced loot spawn algorithm. It cannot be set to a value above 1, because 1 represents 100% chance to the "base" value, and cannot be a negative, without unforeseen consequences.

"Spawn Chance Multiplier" - Takes the value that "Spawn Chance Decimal" calculates and simply multiplies it to whatever value this is set as. This is to counteract the division on the non-base containers, so that you can, if you want, make all containers 100% or higher. It gives a slight bit more granular control. Recommended to not use this one if what you want to achieve can be done with "Spawn Chance Decimal".

○ "Spawn Stack Size Multiplier" - Changes the amount of bullets that spawn in a stack each time ILLEGAL bullets spawns in-raid. The base is the max amounts of bullets that can be in a stack. If you set the multiplier to 1; 7.62x39mm bullets, which you can only stack to 60 total, will have a possibility to spawn in upto stacks of 60. 0.5 by default

○ "Sell Price Multiplier" - Takes basis in the buy price of the bullet AFTER the buy price multiplier has been calculated. Setting this to 1x multiplier, means all ILLEGAL bullets will sell for the same as the current buy price minus the individual traders greed tax.

○ "Flea Price Multiplier" - Also takes basis in the buy price of the bullet. This changes the buy and sell price on the market. 


Advanced Ammunition Config:

○ "Spawn Chance" - Sets the chance for ILLEGAL ammunition to spawn inside of select containers. The higher, the more likely to spawn. It is unclear how this value works, and therefore hard to judge how likely it is to spawn depending on what ○ value it has. All we can do is compare it to other BSG spawn values. Corrugated Hose have an average spawn chance of 9000, Bronze Lions of 1000, and LEDX of 200 on their set static spawns. Do not let this fool you. Just because each ILLEGAL bullet is hovering slightly above the LEDX spawn chance, does not mean they are nearly as rare as LEDX. Keep in mind that there are 24 ILLEGAL bullets. When the chances are added together, the chance of finding any ILLEGAL bullet by default is about 5000, so slightly under the chance of finding a Bronze Lion.

○ "Icon Color" - Sets the default background color for the icon of ILLEGAL ammunition catridges. Acceptable options are blue, yellow, green, red, black, grey, violet, orange, tracerYellow, tracerGreen or tracerRed.

○ "Buy Price" - Sets the price of ILLEGAL ammunition from WEB AMMO.

○ "Sell Price" - IS NO LONGER IN USE. It has been replaced in favor of a new simplified version "Sell Price Multiplier" in "Simple Ammunition Config.

○ "Buy Restriction Amount" - Sets how many of a certain bullet you can buy from WEB AMMO trader each stock refresh.

○ "Loyalty Level Requirement" - Loyalty Level Requirement sets at what trader loyalty level ILLEGAL ammunition is available. Acceptable values are from 0 to 4. If you set a value to 0, it essentially disables the setting. If you set both the setting in Simple and Advanced Ammunition Config to 0, it will return you to the default setting set by me for each bullet.

○ "Removed From Flea Market" - Removes a bullet entirely from the Flea Market, you can't buy or sell it if this is set to true.

○ "Removed From Secured Container" - Stops you from putting ILLEGAL ammunition inside your secured containers. THIS SETTING IS INCOMPATIBLE WITH KMC SVM MOD'S SETTING "REMOVE SECURE CONTAINER FILTERS", SET THIS SETTING TO FALSE IN SIMPLE AMMUNITION CONFIG, AND EMPTY OR FALSE IN ALL ENTRIES IN ADVANCED AMMUNITION CONFIG IF YOU HAVE AN ISSUE WITH THIS. THIS IS NOT NECESARRY AS LONG AS MY MOD IS HIGHER IN THE MOD FOLDER BY NAME CATEGORIZATION, BECAUSE MY MOD WILL LOAD FIRST, NOT ALLOWING KMC SVM TO MESS UP THE DEPENDENCIES IN THE GAME FILES FOR MY MOD.


○ "Damage" - Sets the damage that each projectile does. This means that for buckshots, the damage value will set the damage that each individual pellet does.

○ "Buckshot Pellets" - Sets the amount of buckshot pellets that exit your barrel when shooting a shotgun.

○ "Explosive" - Sets whether a bullet will explode on impact for the bullets that support this option.

○ "Fragments" - Sets the amount of fragments that will fly around after the explosion.

○ "Tracer Color" - Sets the color of the bullets tracer. Acceptable options are blue, yellow, green, red, black, grey, violet, orange, tracerYellow, tracerGreen or tracerRed.

○ "Fin's AI Tweaks" - To use with the mod "Fin's AI Tweaks". When set to true it allows his AI to spawn with ILLEGAL ammunition, false by default.


The rest of the options should be self-explanatory, if you are wondering what a certain stat does, you can consult the Tarkov WIKI, which should have explanations for each.



ERROR MESSAGES AND FAIL-SAFE'S:

○ Booleans and Multiple Choice - If you made a config error on settings that only accepts booleans or multiple choices, my code will give you an error message in the server console, and most of the time tell you exactly where it went wrong, and suggest the appropriate fix.

○ Multipliers and Values - When there is a user error in the config on any options that uses values, which are multipliers and value settings, the code wil automatically default it to the lowest possible positive value that is acceptable, this is designed so that you should notice the error. Not every value mistake will be logged because of limitations and the amount of work and extra code required to do that.

If you run into unintended behavior, make sure to check your log, and the stats to ensure that it is not just a user error!



Have fun and enjoy tweaking the mod to whatever purpose you prefer. However, I do recommend not diverging too much from my default options, as I feel like I have hit a good balance.